CertificateSigningRequest doc updates (#19290)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests.md

---
reviewers:
- liggitt
- mikedanese
- munnerz
title: Certificate Signing Requests

> content_template: templates/concept

Reviewer: This is a concept. In fact, I think the start of this page would have a more natural home in the Concepts section and can then link to the reference documentation to provide more detail. For example, create a new page at https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/certificate-signing-request/

For an example of what I mean, see https://deploy-preview-19172--kubernetes-io-vnext-staging.netlify.com/docs/concepts/scheduling/kube-scheduler/#kube-scheduler-implementation 
(or, if that PR has merged, see https://kubernetes-io-vnext-staging.netlify.com/docs/concepts/scheduling/kube-scheduler/#kube-scheduler-implementation )

weight: 20
---

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="beta" >}}

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="beta" >}}

The Certificates API enables automation of

> [x509](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280) credential provisioning by providing

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
[X.509](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280) credential provisioning by providing
```

X.509 is defined at https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.509 (maybe something for the What's Next section though)

a programmatic interface for clients of the Kubernetes API to request and obtain

> x509 certificates from a Certificate Authority (CA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
X.509 {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="certificate" text="certificates" >}} from a Certificate Authority (CA).
```

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

> ## Certificate Signing Requests Overview

Reviewer: It's a sort of antipattern to close the overview section and then have a heading that says it's an overview.

To address that, I recommend summarising the next 3 paragraphs and moving them into the overview, and then revise the heading to something like “Request signing process”.

(If anyone wants to make a diagram, I think that would really help - that'd be a separate PR BTW).

> The `CertificateSigningRequest` resource type allows a client to submit an x509 CSR (`spec.request`) and request it be

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
The _CertificateSigningRequest_ resource type allows a client to submit an x509 CSR (`spec.request`) and request it be
```

signed by a specific 'signer', denoted by the `spec.signerName` field.

Once created, a CertificateSigningRequest must be approved before it can be signed.
Depending on the signer requested, a CertificateSigningRequest may be auto-approved by a controller.
Otherwise, a CertificateSigningRequest must be manually approved either via the REST API (or client-go)
or via `kubectl certificate approve`. Likewise, a CertificateSigningRequest may also be denied, in which
case the configured signer must not sign the request.

Once approved, a signing controller must attempt to sign the request. A signer should apply its own policy
restrictions, similar to the approval process, on the request to ensure it never signs an invalid request.
There is currently not a mechanism for a signer implementation to report its inability to sign a request.
Once the signer has determined that a request should be signed, it must sign the request and store the

> resulting certificate (and if appropriate, certificate chain) in the `status.certificate` field.

Author: ... as PEM-encoded certificates.

1. **Permitted x509 extensions**: (IP SANs? DNS SANs? Email SANs? URI SANs? others?) and behavior when a disallowed extension is requested.
1. **Permitted key usages / extended key usages**: (client only? server only? any? signer-determined? CSR-determined?) and behavior when usages different than the signer-determined usages are specified in the CSR.
1. **Expiration/cert lifetime**: (fixed by signer? configurable by admin? CSR-determined?) and behavior when an expiration different than the signer-determined expiration is specified in the CSR.
1. **CA bit allowed/disallowed**: and behavior if a CSR contains a request a for a CA cert when the signer does not permit it.
1. (**optional**) Information about the meaning of additional CERTIFICATE PEM blocks in status.certificate, if different from the standard behavior of treating the additional certificates as intermediates, and presenting them in TLS handshakes.

### Kubernetes signers

Kubernetes provides the following well-known signers:

1. `kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client`: signs certificates that will be honored as client-certs by the kube-apiserver.

>   Never auto-approved by kube-controller-manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Never auto-approved by the {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-controller-manager" >}}.
```

    1. Trust distribution: signed certificates must be honored as client-certificates by the kube-apiserver. The CA bundle is not distributed by any other means.

>     1. Permitted subjects - no subject restrictions, but approvers and signers may choose not to approve or sign. Certain subjects like cluster-admin level users or groups vary between distributions and installations, but deserve additional scrutiny before approval and signing. An admission plugin is available to restrict system:masters, but it is often not the only cluster-admin subject in a cluster.

Author: note the name of the admission plugin

>     1. Permitted x509 extensions - Non-critical extensions should be dropped.

Author: s/should be/are/ (and verify this is actually what happens in the kube-controller-manager signer)

Reviewer 2: 👍 this is the relevant policy being applied to all signers: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/3524a5a32a55acbe7a043896c27ce2019a207dec/pkg/controller/certificates/authority/policies.go#L54-L69

I'm actually not certain if we *do* have this quite right here... This may need a `priority/critical-urgent` bug opening if so. I'll need to do some reading up around x509 to be certain myself so would appreciate any additional eyes here cc @deads2k @mikedanese

Author: The template is set up here:
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/3524a5a32a55acbe7a043896c27ce2019a207dec/pkg/controller/certificates/authority/authority.go#L70-L85

And extensions/extraextensions are cleared by the default policy here https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/3524a5a32a55acbe7a043896c27ce2019a207dec/pkg/controller/certificates/authority/policies.go#L54-L69

That means only the extensions that are parsed into distinct fields (IPAddresses/Emails/URIs/DNSNames) are preserved.

That policy has been in place since 1.17. We should update this to say "all extensions other than subjectAltName and key usages are dropped" to match reality.

For the behavior of our defined signers:
* `kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client`
  * any SANs are currently allowed...
* `kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client-kubelet`
  * IsKubeletClientCSR ensures no SANs are set
* `kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving`
  * IsKubeletServingCSR ensures DNSNames or IPAddresses is set and EmailAddresses and URIs is not set
* `kubernetes.io/legacy-unknown`
  * any SANs are allowed

       The CA bundle is not distributed by any other means.
    1. Permitted subjects - organizations are exactly `[]string{"system:nodes"}`, common name starts with `"system:node:"`
    1. Permitted x509 extensions - only DNS and IP SANs are allowed, at least one DNS or IP SAN must be present
    1. Permitted key usages - exactly `[]string{"key encipherment", "digital signature", "server auth"}`
    1. Expiration/cert lifetime - minimum of CSR signer or request.
    1. CA bit allowed/disallowed - not allowed.

1. `kubernetes.io/legacy-unknown`:  has no guarantees for trust at all. Some distributions may honor these as client
  certs, but that behavior is not standard kubernetes behavior.
  Never auto-approved by kube-controller-manager.
    1. Trust distribution: None.  There is no standard trust or distribution for this signer in a kubernetes cluster.
    1. Permitted subjects - any
    1. Permitted x509 extensions - honors SAN extensions and discards other extensions.
    1. Permitted key usages - any
    1. Expiration/cert lifetime - minimum of CSR signer or request.  Sanity of the time is the concern of the signer.
    1. CA bit allowed/disallowed - not allowed.

> Today, failures for all of these are only reported in kube-controller-manager-logs.

Reviewer: [Avoid making statements or giving hints about the future](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-statements-about-the-future) (remove “Today, ”)

Distribution of trust happens out of band for these signers.  Any trust outside of those described above are strictly
coincidental.  For instance, some distributions may honor `kubernetes.io/legacy-unknown` as client-certificates for the
kube-apiserver, but this is not a standard.
None of these usages are related to ServiceAccount token secrets `.data[ca.crt]` in any way.  That CA bundle is only
guaranteed to verify a connection to the kube-apiserver using the default service (`kubernetes.default.svc`).

## Authorization

To allow creating a CertificateSigningRequest and retrieving any CertificateSigningRequest:
* create certificates.k8s.io certificatesigningrequests

> * get certificates.k8s.io certificatesigningrequests

Author: also maybe list/watch? (used by the default csr util WaitForCertificate method)

To allow approving a CertificateSigningRequest:
* update certificates.k8s.io certificatesigningrequests/approval
* approve certificates.k8s.io signers <signerNameDomain>/<signerNamePath> or

>   approve certificates.k8s.io signers <signerNameDomain>/*

Author: These are hard to follow without knowing which is verb/apiGroup/resource. Should these be in the form of RBAC rules (which is realistically what 99% of people will be wanting to construct anyway)?

Reviewer 2: Should we also include `get/list/watch` in `approval` requirements then too? Technically you'll struggle to approve the CSR unless you have a copy of it (unless patching is done instead..)

Author: sure

To allow signing a CertificateSigningRequest:
* update certificates.k8s.io certificatesigningrequests/status
* sign certificates.k8s.io signers <signerNameDomain>/<signerNamePath> or

>   sign certificates.k8s.io signers <signerNameDomain>/*

Author: same comment about making this more structured, maybe as an RBAC rule

## Approval/Rejection

### kube-controller-manager auto-approval

> The kube-controller-manager ships with an in-built

Author: ```suggestion
The kube-controller-manager ships with a built-in
```

> [approver](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/32ec6c212ec9415f604ffc1f4c1f29b782968ff1/pkg/controller/certificates/approver/sarapprove.go)

Reviewer: I wouldn't link here. If it's useful further reading, add the hyperlink to the What's Next section.

> for Kubelet TLS Bootstrap that delegates various permissions on CSRs for node

Author: ```suggestion
for certificates with a signerName of `kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client-kubelet` that delegates various permissions on CSRs for node
```

> credentials to authorization. It does this by posting subject access reviews to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credentials to authorization. It does this by posting SubjectAccessReview objects to
```
?

the API server. It punts on TLS certificates for server authentication of the
Kubelet API because verifying IP SANs for Kubelets in a generic way poses

> challenges.

Author: drop `It punts on TLS certificates...`

Reviewer: I recommend expanding `subjectAltName` too

The GCP controller manager replaces the in-built approver with an
[approver](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-gcp/blob/08fa1e3260ffb267682762e24ba93692000e3be8/cmd/gcp-controller-manager/csr_approver.go)
that handles TLS certificates for server authentication and support for

> verification of CSRs with proof of control of GCE vTPM.

Author: I probably wouldn't go into cloud-specific signers in this doc

An external project, [kapprover](https://github.com/coreos/kapprover), does

> policy based approval of kubelet CSRs.

Reviewer: That could go into a What's Next link, if it's generally useful to readers.

### kubectl-based approver

A Kubernetes administrator (with appropriate permissions) can manually approve
(or deny) Certificate Signing Requests by using the `kubectl certificate
approve` and `kubectl certificate deny` commands.

To approve a CSR with kubectl:

> ```

Reviewer: append “bash” (or “shell”) to the 3 backticks to mark the contents as shell

> kubectl certificate approve [NAME OF CSR]

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
kubectl certificate approve <certificate-signing-request-name>
```

```

Likewise, to deny a CSR:

```
kubectl certificate deny [NAME OF CSR]
```

### API-based approver

Users of the REST API can approve CSRs by submitting an UPDATE request to the `approval`
subresource of the CSR to be approved.

As part of this request, the `Approved` or `Denied` status condition should be set to the

> desired state.

Author: maybe add example status yaml blocks with approved and denied conditions?

## Signing

### kube-controller-manager signer

> The kube-controller-manager ships with an in-built

Author: ```suggestion
The kube-controller-manager ships with a built-in
```

> [signer](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/32ec6c212ec9415f604ffc1f4c1f29b782968ff1/pkg/controller/certificates/signer/cfssl_signer.go)

Reviewer: I would drop that link (I don't think it helps readers learn if they follow it).

that signs all approved certificates with a local key. This key is generally
configured to be the key of the cluster's root certificate authority, but is not

> required to be.

Author: that signs certificates that have the kubernetes.io signerNames defined above (kube-controller-manager versions prior to the introduction of `signerName` in v1.18 would sign all approved CSRs).

Author: Drop `This key is generally...`

The GCP controller manager implements a
[signer](https://github.com/kubernetes/cloud-provider-gcp/blob/08fa1e3260ffb267682762e24ba93692000e3be8/cmd/gcp-controller-manager/csr_signer.go)
that uses a webhook to sign all approved CSRs. This allows the root certificate
authority secret material to be stored and maintained outside of the Kubernetes

> control plane.

Author: similarly, I wouldn't go into signers that live outside the project here

### API-based signers

> Users of the REST API can approve CSRs by submitting an UPDATE request to the `status`

Author: ```suggestion
Users of the REST API can sign CSRs by submitting an UPDATE request to the `status`
```

* Approved requests: automatically deleted after 1 hour
* Denied requests: automatically deleted after 1 hour
* Pending requests: automatically deleted after 1 hour

## Signers

### Signers should define...

All signers should provide information about how they work so that clients can predict what will happen to their CSRs.
This includes:

1. **Trust distribution**: how trust (CA bundles) are distributed.
1. **Permitted subjects**: (any? specific subtree?) and behavior when a disallowed subject is requested.
1. **Permitted x509 extensions**: (IP SANs? DNS SANs? Email SANs? URI SANs? others?) and behavior when a disallowed extension is requested.
1. **Permitted key usages / extended key usages**: (client only? server only? any? signer-determined? CSR-determined?) and behavior when usages different than the signer-determined usages are specified in the CSR.
1. **Expiration/cert lifetime**: (fixed by signer? configurable by admin? CSR-determined?) and behavior when an expiration different than the signer-determined expiration is specified in the CSR.
1. **CA bit allowed/disallowed**: and behavior if a CSR contains a request a for a CA cert when the signer does not permit it.

> 1. (**optional**) Information about the meaning of additional CERTIFICATE PEM blocks in status.certificate, if different from the standard behavior of treating the additional certificates as intermediates, and presenting them in TLS handshakes.

Reviewer: @munnerz this looks like rough work (including the heading); is that right?

### Kubernetes signers

> Kubernetes provides the following well-known signers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes provides built-in signers that each have a well-known `signerName`:
```

    1. Permitted subjects - organizations are exactly `[]string{"system:nodes"}`, common name starts with `"system:node:"`
    1. Permitted x509 extensions - only DNS and IP SANs are allowed, at least one DNS or IP SAN must be present
    1. Permitted key usages - exactly `[]string{"key encipherment", "digital signature", "server auth"}`
    1. Expiration/cert lifetime - minimum of CSR signer or request.
    1. CA bit allowed/disallowed - not allowed.

1. `kubernetes.io/legacy-unknown`:  has no guarantees for trust at all. Some distributions may honor these as client
  certs, but that behavior is not standard kubernetes behavior.
  Never auto-approved by {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-controller-manager" >}}.
    1. Trust distribution: None.  There is no standard trust or distribution for this signer in a kubernetes cluster.
    1. Permitted subjects - any
    1. Permitted x509 extensions - honors SAN extensions and discards other extensions.
    1. Permitted key usages - any
    1. Expiration/cert lifetime - minimum of CSR signer or request.  Sanity of the time is the concern of the signer.
    1. CA bit allowed/disallowed - not allowed.

> Failures for all of these are only reported in kube-controller-manager logs.

Reviewer: Optional tweak (could land in a later PR):
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
Failures for all of these are only reported in kube-controller-manager logs.
{{< /note >}}
```

Distribution of trust happens out of band for these signers.  Any trust outside of those described above are strictly

> coincidental.  For instance, some distributions may honor `kubernetes.io/legacy-unknown` as client-certificates for the

Reviewer: nit (could land in a later PR):
```suggestion
coincidental.  For instance, some distributions may honor `kubernetes.io/legacy-unknown` as client certificates for the
```

* Verbs: `sign`, group: `certificates.k8s.io`, resource: `signers`, resourceName: `<signerNameDomain>/<signerNamePath>` or `<signerNameDomain>/*`

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: csr-signer
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - certificates.k8s.io
  resources:
  - certificatesigningrequests
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - certificates.k8s.io
  resources:
  - certificatesigningrequests/status
  verbs:
  - update
- apiGroups:
  - certificates.k8s.io
  resources:
  - signers
  resourceName:
  - example.com/my-signer-name # example.com/* can be used to authorize for all signers in the 'example.com' domain
  verbs:
  - sign
```

## Approval/Rejection

### kube-controller-manager auto-approval

The kube-controller-manager ships with a built-in approver for certificates with
a signerName of `kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client-kubelet` that delegates various
permissions on CSRs for node credentials to authorization.
It does this by posting SubjectAccessReview resources to the API server.

### kubectl-based approver

A Kubernetes administrator (with appropriate permissions) can manually approve

> (or deny) Certificate Signing Requests by using the `kubectl certificate

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
(or deny) CertificateSigningRequests by using the `kubectl certificate
```

approve` and `kubectl certificate deny` commands.

To approve a CSR with kubectl:

```bash
kubectl certificate approve <certificate-signing-request-name>
```

Likewise, to deny a CSR:

```bash
kubectl certificate deny <certificate-signing-request-name>
```

### API-based approver

Users of the REST API can approve CSRs by submitting an UPDATE request to the `approval`

> subresource of the CSR to be approved.

Reviewer: optional change:
```suggestion
subresource of the CSR to be approved. For example, you could write an
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="operator-pattern" text="operator" >}} that watches for a particular
kind of CSR and then sends an UPDATE to approve them.
```

As part of this request, the `Approved` or `Denied` status condition should be set to the
desired state:

For `Approved` CSRs:

```yaml
apiVersion: certificates.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: CertificateSigningRequest
...
status:
  conditions:
  - lastUpdateTime: "2020-02-08T11:37:35Z"
    message: Auto approving kubelet client certificate after SubjectAccessReview.
    reason: AutoApproved # this can be set to anything
    type: Approved
```

For `Denied` CSRs:

```yaml
apiVersion: certificates.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: CertificateSigningRequest
...
status:
  conditions:
  - lastUpdateTime: "2020-02-08T11:37:35Z"
    message: Denied due to request not matching requirements
    reason: NotAllowed # this can be set to anything
    type: Denied
```

## Signing

> ### kube-controller-manager signer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Control plane signer
```

because the important detail is that this is part of your cluster's control plane, and the location of that controller inside the control plane is an (important) implementation detail.

The kube-controller-manager ships with a built-in signer that signs certificates
that have the kubernetes.io signerNames defined above (kube-controller-manager

> versions prior to the introduction of signerName in v1.18 would sign all approved CSRs).

Reviewer: Does this paraphrase as:
```markdown
The Kubernetes control plane implements each of the built-in
[Kubernetes signers](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/#kubernetes-signers),
as part of the kube-controller-manager.
```
?
(if not, I think it could bear explaining further)

The note could look like:
```markdown
{{< note >}}
Prior to Kubernetes v1.18, the kube-controller-manager would sign any CSRs that
were marked as approved.
{{< /note >}}
```

### API-based signers

Users of the REST API can sign CSRs by submitting an UPDATE request to the `status`
subresource of the CSR to be signed.

As part of this request, the `status.certificate` field should be set to contain the
signed certificate.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture whatsnext %}}

* kube-controller-manager built in [signer](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/32ec6c212ec9415f604ffc1f4c1f29b782968ff1/pkg/controller/certificates/signer/cfssl_signer.go)

> * kube-controller-manager built in [approver](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/32ec6c212ec9415f604ffc1f4c1f29b782968ff1/pkg/controller/certificates/approver/sarapprove.go)

Reviewer: Consider also signposting readers to go and read https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/managing-tls-in-a-cluster/ at this point.

---
reviewers:
- liggitt
- mikedanese
- munnerz
title: Certificate Signing Requests
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="beta" >}}

The Certificates API enables automation of
[X.509](https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-X.509) credential provisioning by providing
a programmatic interface for clients of the Kubernetes API to request and obtain
X.509 {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="certificate" text="certificates" >}} from a Certificate Authority (CA).

> A CertificateSigningRequest resource is used to request a certificate be signed

Reviewer: nit (can fix this in a later PR):
```suggestion
A CertificateSigningRequest (CSR) resource is used to request that a certificate be signed
```

by a denoted signer, after which the request may be approved or denied before
finally being signed.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}
## Request signing process

The _CertificateSigningRequest_ resource type allows a client to submit an x509 CSR (`spec.request`) and request it be

> signed by a specific 'signer', denoted by the `spec.signerName` field.

Reviewer: nit (can fix this in a later PR):
```suggestion
The _CertificateSigningRequest_ resource type allows a client to submit an x509 CSR (`spec.request`) and request it be signed by a specific _signer_, denoted by the `spec.signerName` field.
```

Once created, a CertificateSigningRequest must be approved before it can be signed.

> Depending on the signer requested, a CertificateSigningRequest may be auto-approved by a controller.

Reviewer: nit (can fix this in a later PR):
```suggestion
Depending on the signer requested, a CertificateSigningRequest may be auto-approved by a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="controller" term_id="controller" >}}.
```

than a specified duration:

* Approved requests: automatically deleted after 1 hour
* Denied requests: automatically deleted after 1 hour
* Pending requests: automatically deleted after 1 hour

## Signers

### Signers should define...

All signers should provide information about how they work so that clients can predict what will happen to their CSRs.
This includes:

1. **Trust distribution**: how trust (CA bundles) are distributed.
1. **Permitted subjects**: any restrictions on and behavior when a disallowed subject is requested.
1. **Permitted x509 extensions**: including IP subjectAltNames, DNS subjectAltNames, Email subjectAltNames, URI subjectAltNames etc, and behavior when a disallowed extension is requested.
1. **Permitted key usages / extended key usages**: any restrictions on and behavior when usages different than the signer-determined usages are specified in the CSR.
1. **Expiration/certificate lifetime**: whether it is fixed by the signer, configurable by the admin, determined by the CSR object etc and behavior if an expiration different than the signer-determined expiration is specified in the CSR.

> 1. **CA bit allowed/disallowed**: and behavior if a CSR contains a request a for a CA cert when the signer does not permit it.

Reviewer: It'd be good to tell readers what the “CA bit” is. Something for a follow-up PR?

> 1. **optional**: Information about the meaning of additional CERTIFICATE PEM blocks in status.certificate, if different from the standard behavior of treating the additional certificates as intermediates, and presenting them in TLS handshakes.

Reviewer: nit; this can wait for a follow-up PR:
```suggestion
1. **optional**: Information about the meaning of additional `CERTIFICATE PEM` blocks in `status.certificate`, if different from the standard behavior of treating the additional certificates as intermediates, and presenting them in TLS handshakes.
```

> 1. **optional**: Information about the meaning of additional CERTIFICATE PEM blocks in status.certificate, if different from the standard behavior of treating the additional certificates as intermediates, and presenting them in TLS handshakes.

Reviewer: Would this list work better as a table? If so, that change can wait for a future PR.

permissions on CSRs for node credentials to authorization.
It does this by posting SubjectAccessReview resources to the API server.

### kubectl-based approver

A Kubernetes administrator (with appropriate permissions) can manually approve
(or deny) CertificateSigningRequests by using the `kubectl certificate
approve` and `kubectl certificate deny` commands.

To approve a CSR with kubectl:

```bash
kubectl certificate approve <certificate-signing-request-name>
```

Likewise, to deny a CSR:

```bash
kubectl certificate deny <certificate-signing-request-name>
```

### API-based approver

Users of the REST API can approve CSRs by submitting an UPDATE request to the `approval`
subresource of the CSR to be approved. For example, you could write an
{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="operator-pattern" text="operator" >}} that watches for a particular
kind of CSR and then sends an UPDATE to approve them.

As part of this request, the `Approved` or `Denied` status condition should be set to the
desired state:

For `Approved` CSRs:

```yaml
apiVersion: certificates.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: CertificateSigningRequest
...
status:
  conditions:
  - lastUpdateTime: "2020-02-08T11:37:35Z"

>     message: Auto approving kubelet client certificate after SubjectAccessReview.

Author: nit (can be a follow-up): make this more obviously a custom approval message, e.g. "Approved by my custom approver controller"

>     reason: AutoApproved # this can be set to anything

Author: same here, `reason: ApprovedByMyPolicy`

---
reviewers:
- liggitt
- mikedanese
- munnerz
title: Certificate Signing Requests
content_template: templates/concept
weight: 20
---

> {{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.18" state="beta" >}}

Reviewer: I'd remove this line but leave in the one in the overview section.
